MySQL - Curso em Vídeo  Aula 15

01.
All database programs has an engine, and the default engine of MySQL (bought by Oracle) is InnoDB.

02.
InnoDB main characteristic is support foreign keys.

03.
A Foreign Key shouldn't have the same name as the Primary Key. But MUST have the same type and size.

04.
To add an Foreign Key, we follow the next steps for example:

		alter table gafanhotos add column cursopreferido int;
		alter table gafanhotos add foreign key (cursopreferido) references cursos(idcurso);

After this, the foreign key gonna be represented as MUL, that means Multiple Key or Mul-Key.
To start creating relationship with each entity (gafanhotos e cursos), we continue as:

		update gafanhotos set cursopreferido = '6' where id = '1';

On this command, '6' references 'MySQL' and '1' a person with several attributes, so the connection is: That person whit the id '1', likes (are to be set) the cursopreferido '6', 'MySQL'.

05.
In theory, if we have a several data, we set the command update several times. But we can set one by one inside the SQLW on the empty fields. Doing this, a button called Apply appears, so just click him and MyQSL gonna do the commands by himself.

06.
We can't delete attributes that already have relationship with other attributes from another entity, because it's generate an incosistence. That means there's a referencial integrity.

07.
To show the name of an foreign key, there's a command that have a function of junction, an he is called JOIN. For example:

		select gafanhotos.nome, gafanhotos.cursopreferido, cursos.nome, cursos.ano from gafanhotos join cursos;

What's happened here?

		- We select each attribute from their entities and maked a junction of them.

There's a clause to filter each data separated, whitout repeat the same information, and we use >on< to do this. Example:

		select gafanhotos.nome, gafanhotos.cursopreferido, cursos.nome, cursos.ano from gafanhotos join cursos on cursos.idcurso = gafanhotos.cursopreferido;

What's happened here?

		- We maked a junction with the Primary Key idcurso with the Foreign Key cursopreferido;

08.
"What's going on with the other data registered", to understand first, we have done a INNER JOIN, which means a JUNCTION with each data, so that's why the other information are not included on the select.

09.
We also can short our code line with "as" command before and after inner join (or just join).
Example:

		select g.nome, g.cursopreferido, c.nome, c.ano 
		from gafanhotos as g inner join cursos as c 
		on c.idcurso = g.cursopreferido;

10.
To show everything, including the data out of the junction, we use OUTER JOIN. 
And to specify the table we are using, we digit the side of what table are gonna showed by select.
Example:

		select g.nome, g.cursopreferido, c.nome, c.ano 
		from gafanhotos as g left outer join cursos as c 
		on c.idcurso = g.cursopreferido;

The table used on the example is gafanhotos, because he is on the left of outer join. And isn't necessary to digit outer, MySQL will understand as a outer join.

		from gafanhotos as g left join cursos as c 

So, as the following logical terms, the contrary will be:

		from gafanhotos as right join cursos as c 
		from gafanhotos as right outer join cursos as c 