MySQL - Curso em Vídeo  Aula 12

01.
MySQL have a literal operators, for example "like", that search on database for some data similar to the condition requested.
Example: 

	select * from cursos where nome like 'P%';

The search request by where is case sensitive in this example and the % signal means something to replace (any or several characters) and search just what is ordered.

02.
The position of the wildcard % is important because if you change him, will have a different result.
For example, try this:

	select * from cursos where nome like 'a%';
	select * from cursos where nome like '%a';

The difference is that letter "a" will be search at the final of the characters.

03.
And also, if you use "%A%", the where gonna search the
character in any data.

04.
The opposite of like is not like.

05.
It's possible use UPDATE just changing data with select, click on them and change their informations. After this, there's a button called  "Apply", so just click him.

06.
Summarizing, like command is used to search something that start or end with
the statement requested. Example:

	select * from cursos where nome like 'ph%p'; (photoshop and php)

07.
And there's a wildcard that obligate to show an existent character,
for example:

	select * from cursos where nome like 'ph%_'; (Photoshop, PHP, PHP4, PH7)
	select * from cursos where nome like 'p_p%'; (PHP, PHP4, PH7)

08.
So, in a giant database, we can search a specific names, for example:

	select * from gafanhotos where nome like '%silva%';

(Every person that have Silva gonna be selected)

09.
To show every data existent and distinct each other, there's a command to search like this:

	select distinct carga from cursos; (and show all worloads and don't repeat them)
	select distinct nacionalidade from gafanhotos; (and show all countrys)

10.
There's a functions called aggregation functions, that works to select or show how many of something there is. For example, counting:

	select count(*) from cursos; (and show how many itens have in cursos)
	select count(*) from cursos where carga > 40;

11.
And also we can request the maximum inside of something with aggregation. 
Example:

	select max(totaulas) from cursos;
	select max(carga) from cursos;

The minimum as well:

	select min(totaulas) from cursos;
	select min(carga) from cursos;

12.
To have more certain of results, we can add more information
to ask for a search. For example:

	select nome, min(totaulas) from cursos;

13.
We can sum and request average from data. Example:

	select sum(totaulas) from cursos; (583)
	select avg(totaulas) from cursos; (19.4333)

